DOCS-3911 Browser Test Runs Edits and Settings Edit (#16522)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/browser_tests/test_runs.md

---

> title: Browser Test Runs

Reviewer: Talking to @cosme-ddog about this, and we think we should maybe continue to call this page `Browser Test Results`, as that is predominately what this page is focusing on (including 'Sample Results', 'Test Results table etc). What do you think?

 - "/synthetics/browser_tests/test_results"
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/core-web-vitals-monitoring-datadog-rum-synthetics/#what-are-the-core-web-vitals"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Monitor Core Web Vitals with Synthetic Monitoring"
- link: "/synthetics/guide/explore-rum-through-synthetics/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Explore RUM & Session Replay in Synthetics"
- link: "/synthetics/dashboards/browser_test/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about the Browser Test Performance Dashboard"
---

## Overview

Test runs appear in a test details page after a Synthetic test executes. [Sample runs](#sample-runs) correlate to the latest passed and failed test executions over a time interval and in a specific number of locations and devices.

## Test properties

In the **Properties** section, you can see the test ID, test creation and edit date, a list of tags, test priority, and a link to an out-of-the-box Synthetic [browser test dashboard][11].

**Overview** 
: This section describes the test URL, the number of locations, the number of devices, the test interval, and the number of test steps, including custom steps.

**Monitor**

> : This section contains the name of the [Synthetic test's monitor][13] and the notification message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: This section contains the name of the [Synthetic test's monitor][13] and the configured notification message.
```

**CI/CD Execution**

> : This section contains a dropdown menu to change the [execution rule][12] for this test running in a CI/CD pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: This section contains a dropdown menu to change the [execution rule][12] for this test running as part of a Continuous Testing CI pipeline.
```
Can we link to the Continuous Testing documentation here?

## Test history

In the **History** section, you can see three graphs:

> - The **Global Uptime** graph displays the total uptime of all test locations in a given time interval. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **Global Uptime** graph displays the total uptime of all test locations in a given time interval. The global uptime takes into consideration the [alert conditions](https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/browser_tests/?tab=requestoptions#define-alert-conditions) configured for a test
```

> - The **Time-to-interactive by location and device** graph displays the amount of time in seconds the [last Long Task][15] takes to complete in a given time interval. For more information about uptime monitoring, see the [Website Uptime Monitoring with SLOs][14] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **Time-to-interactive by location and device** graph displays the amount of time until a page could be interacted with in seconds. For more information about uptime monitoring, see the [Website Uptime Monitoring with SLOs][14] guide.
```

- The **Test duration by location and device** graph displays the amount of time in minutes each location and device takes to complete in a given time interval. 

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/history.png" alt="The History and Sample Runs section in the Test Details page" style="width=80%" >}}

## Sample runs

Browser test runs include components such as [screenshots](#screenshots), [page performance data](#page-performance), [errors](#errors), [resources](#resources), and [backend traces](#backend-traces) to help troubleshoot your [test failure](#failed-test-runs).

> In the **Sample Runs** section, you can examine the latest failed sample runs and compare them to recent successful sample runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Sample Runs** section, you can examine the latest failed test runs and compare them to recent successful test runs.
```

### Overview attributes

Status
: The status of your test run (`PASSED` or `FAILED`).

Starting URL
: The URL of your browser test scenario.

Steps
: The number of test steps completed in your sample run.

Duration
: The amount of time it took your test to run.

Location
: The managed or private location your test was executed from.

Device
: The type of device your test was executed from.

Browser
: The type of browser your test was executed from.

Time ran
: The amount of time that has passed since your test ran.

Run type
: The type of test run (CI, fast retry, manually triggered, or scheduled).

### RUM sessions

> To view related sessions and available replays in the RUM Explorer, click **View Session in RUM**. To access a user session for a particular action or step in Session Replay, click **Replay Session**. For more information, see [Test Coverage][16].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view related sessions and available replays in the RUM Explorer, click **View Session in RUM**. To access a user session for a particular action or step in Session Replay, click **Replay Session**. For more information, see our [Exploring RUM & Session Replay in Synthetics][16] guide.
```

### Screenshots and actions

> Every executed test step contains a screenshot of the test action, a link to the session in Session Replay, the test action description, the starting URL, the step ID, the step duration, and page performance information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every executed test step contains a screenshot of the step action, a link to the session in Session Replay, the step description, the starting URL for a given step, the step ID, the step duration, and page performance information.
```

### Page performance

> Synthetic Monitoring displays two [Core Web Vital metrics][6] ([Largest Contentful Paint][2] and [Cumulative Layout Shift][3]) as pills to the right of each step URL. [First Input Delay][4] is available if you are using [Real User Monitoring][5] to collect real user data. For more information, see [Monitoring Page Performance][6].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Synthetic Monitoring includes two [Core Web Vital metrics][6] ([Largest Contentful Paint][2] and [Cumulative Layout Shift][3]) as lab metrics, displayed as pills to the right of each step URL. [First Input Delay][4] is available if you are using [Real User Monitoring][5] to collect real user data. For more information, see [Monitoring Page Performance][6].
```

Should we also update the `Monitoring Page Performance` to reference lab metrics since it doesn't have that currently? https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/alai97/browser-test-results-doc-update/real_user_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#core-web-vitals

Author: Sure, does this update make sense (https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/16605) or is there additional content we can add?

### Errors and warnings

Click the **Errors** pill to access the **Errors & Warnings** tab and examine a list of errors separated by error type (`js` or `network`) and status (the network status code).

> The error type is logged when the browser test interacts with the page. It corresponds to the errors collected between the time the page is opened and [NEEDS REPHRASING: the time interaction with that page is realized]. The maximum number of errors that can be displayed is 8, for example: 2 `network` + 6 `js` errors.

Author: Can someone fill in the blanks here or rephrase "the time interaction with that page is realized?"

```suggestion
The error type is logged when the browser test interacts with the page. It corresponds to the errors collected between the time the page is opened and ?. The maximum number of errors that can be displayed is 8, for example: 2 `network` + 6 `js` errors.
```

Reviewer: @alai97 Maybe `...errors collected between the time the page is opened and the time the page can be interacted with.` - not sure it's the best English 😅

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/resources_panel.png" alt="Resources Panel" style="width:90%" >}}

You can filter resources by type and search by name in the search bar. The maximum number of resources that can be displayed is 100. Resources are ordered by the time when they start and display the first 100 in Datadog.

Relative Time 
: The resource duration over the total interaction time.

CDN
: The CDN provider that served the resource. Hover over a CDN provider's icon to see the raw cache status.  
Datadog detects Akamai, Cloudflare, Fastly, Amazon Cloudfront, Netlify, Google Cloud CDN, Imperva, and Sucuri.

Resource
: The URL of the resource.

Type
: The type of resource (HTML, Download, CSS, Fetch, Image, JavaScript, XHR, or Other).

Method
: The method of the request.

Protocol
: The protocol of the request.

Status
: The HTTP response status code.

Duration
: The time needed to perform the request.

Size
: The size of the request response.

### Backend traces

> Click the **Traces** pill to access the **Traces** tab and explore APM traces associated with the browser test. While the UI is similar to the [Trace View][7] in the Trace Explorer, one browser test step can make multiple requests to different URLs or endpoints. This results in several associated traces, depending on your tracing setup and on the URLs you allowed in for browser tests in the [Synthetic Monitoring Settings page][8]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **Traces** pill to access the **Traces** tab and explore APM traces associated with the browser test. While the UI is similar to the [Trace View][7] in the Trace Explorer, one browser test step can make multiple requests to different URLs or endpoints. This results in several associated traces, depending on your tracing setup and on the URLs you allowed in for browser tests in the [Synthetic Monitoring Settings page][8]. 

Find out more about cross-product correlation in [our guide](https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/guide/ease-troubleshooting-with-cross-product-correlation/#leverage-trace-correlation-to-troubleshoot-synthetic-tests)
```

### Step duration

The step duration represents the amount of time the step takes to execute with the [Datadog locator system][9]. Not only does the step duration include the action (such as user interactions), but also it incorporates the wait and retry mechanism, which allows browser tests to ensure an element is able to be interacted with. For more information, see [Advanced Options for Browser Test Steps][9].

## Failed runs

> A test result is considered `FAILED` if it does not satisfy its assertions or if a step failed for another reason. You can troubleshoot failed runs by looking at their screenshots, checking for potential [errors](#errors) at the step level, and looking into [resources][17] with [backend traces](#backend-traces) generated by their steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A test result is considered `FAILED` if it does not satisfy its assertions or if a step failed for another reason. You can troubleshoot failed runs by looking at their screenshots, checking for potential [errors](#errors) at the step level, and looking into [resources][17] and [backend traces](#backend-traces) generated by their steps.
```

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://web.dev/vitals/
[2]: https://web.dev/lcp/
[3]: https://web.dev/cls/
[4]: https://web.dev/fid/
[5]: /real_user_monitoring/
[6]: /real_user_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#core-web-vitals
[7]: /tracing/trace_explorer/trace_view/
[8]: /synthetics/settings/?tab=specifyvalue#apm-integration-for-browser-tests
[9]: /synthetics/browser_tests/advanced_options/?tab=requestoptions#user-specified-locator
[10]: /help/
[11]: /synthetics/dashboards/browser_test/
[12]: /continuous_testing/cicd_integrations/configuration/?tab=npm#test-files
[13]: /synthetics/guide/synthetic-test-monitors/
[14]: /synthetics/guide/uptime-percentage-widget/
[15]: /real_user_monitoring/browser/data_collected/#long-task-timing-metrics
[16]: /synthetics/guide/explore-rum-through-synthetics/
[17]: /tracing/services/resource_page/

> [18]: https://app.datadoghq.com/event/explorer

Author: ```suggestion
[18]: https://app.datadoghq.com/event/explorer
[19]: /continuous_testing/cicd_integrations
[20]: /synthetics/browser_tests/?tab=requestoptions#define-alert-conditions
[21]: /logs/guide/ease-troubleshooting-with-cross-product-correlation/#leverage-trace-correlation-to-troubleshoot-synthetic-tests
```
